Assignment 1:

My chosen data set details the impact of anthropogenic noise on immunity in a model host-parasite system (guppy-Gyrodactylus turnbulli). Anthropogenic noise is a stressor experienced in every habitat, including aquatic systems. Noise pollution can lead to chronic stress in fishes, which can subsequently impact their hearing, behaviour and immunity. A metric used to characterize the immune function of a fish is to test susceptibility to parasitic infections, therefore this study experimentally exposed guppies to chronic or acute noise and observed their parasite resistance. 

The data includes the fish ID, fish length, treatment/noise level the fish were exposed to, parasite count, the maximum parasite count, and the date the fish died. The biological question that I am interested in answering is how does a noise stressor impact the immunity and lifespan of Guppies? 

JD: I hope you don't mind me renaming this file; R files with spaces in the filename confuse my computer – but I can tell it to calm down if necessary.

Assignment 2:

With this data I would like to investigate how stress level impacts the immune response of fishes by examining changes in parasite load over time. I would also like to examine how a potential change in immune response impacts their longevity. In  order to sort my data into replicable components I would like to take the mean parasite load for each sampling day (days 1 - 10) within each treatment and plot each treatment as its own series on a line graph, demonstrating the change in immune response over time during or following a noise stressor to show a time course of the response. 


Assignment 3:

First, I wanted to look at the time course of the parasite count following the exposure to different types of noise stressors. I plotted each treatment individually first with the sampling day on the x axis, since each individual was observed over multiple days, and parasite count as the primary response variable on the y-axis. Since I am looking at how a variable changes over time I chose to display the relationship using a line graph. In addition to looking at each treatment individually, I chose to plot all three treatments together as a line graph in order to show how each treatment compares to each other in terms of their impact on parasite count. For aesthetics, I chose to display each treatment with a different coloured line. Next, I added up the parasite counts for all sampling days to get the total number of parasites that each individual had over the course of the sampling period. I then took the mean of all individuals for each treatment and plotted them on a bar graph. With this plot, I wanted to show the full extent of the parasite load for individuals in each treatment. For aesthetics I chose to use a simple theme so the data stood out and was easy to interpret. 


Assignment 5 (Permutations):

First, I hypothesized that exposure to a noise stressor will impact the parasite load of guppies. When I plotted the total parasite count for control fish and fish exposed to a noise stressor, I noted that fish exposed to chronic noise had approximately the same total number of parasites compared to the control fish. To test whether this effect could have been due to random chance, I used lmPerm to compute a permutational test for a linear model.

**BMB:** I think you didn't test this hypothesis (control vs noise) in this case, you tested whether there was an overall difference between the three groups ... also, in general you should be careful about coming up with hypotheses by looking at the data. It's OK to come up with *additional* ('exploratory') hypotheses that way, but your primary hypotheses should be based on what you knew/wanted to learn by doing the experiment in the first place (and consider *not* reporting p-values etc. on exploratory hypotheses, but at least clearly indicate them as such)

Second, since the control did not appear different from the chronic noise group, I wanted to compare the two levels of noise and test whether this effect could have been generated by random chance. I hypothesized that the level of exposure to a noise stressor will impact the immunity of guppies. When I plotted the total parasite count for the 2 noise treatments, fish exposed to the acute noise treatment appeared to have a higher parasite load compared to the chronic treatment, which would indicate that acute noise has a significant negative impact on the guppy's immune system. I performed a simple permutation test on the mean total parasite count for both noise stressor treatments.

**BMB:**  "exposure to a noise stressor will impact the immunity of guppies" - we already know it will (the null hypothesis is always false/nothing is zero) ...


Assignment 7: Generalized linear models

For this week's assignment, I decided to test an additional hypothesis concerning the control group. I hypothesized that in the absence of a noise stressor, fish immune function would not be weakened and therefore at any given time, I predicted that there would be a constantly low parasite load present in the fish population sampled. 

I first performed a diagnostic plot which demonstrated the following: 

Residuals vs Fitted - equally spread values across a horizontal line suggests I don't have a non-linear relationship

QQ Plot - my values did not correlate tightly in a straight line, but instead deviates severely at the highest and lowest theoretical quantiles, indicating that my data is not normally distributed. 

Scale-Location - my data is slightly skewed, as it isn't distributed evenly across a horizontal line, indicating that the assumption of equal variance is not satisfied

Residuals vs leverage - no significant outliers in the data

Then, I made an inferential plot for the model using the effects package. 